Improve taxonomic name coverage of TreeOfLife-10M. (#30)
Imageomics/open_clip: docs/imageomics/treeoflife10m.md

**(Note: this is an internal-only dataset card for now)**

## How to Create TreeOfLife-10M

To the best of my knowledge, this is the process for creating the entire dataset, version 3.3 (which we used to re-train bioclip for the public release).

1. `bash scripts/download_data.sh` to download most of the metadata files.
2. `python scripts/evobio10m/make_mapping.py --tag v3.3 --workers 8` to create the sqlite database that maps from original files to tree of life ids. This script can run on login nodes and should take several hours. If you want it much faster, you can queue it on slurm with more workers.
3. `python scripts/evobio10m/make_splits.py --db /fs/ess/PAS2136/open_clip/data/evobio10m-v3.3/mapping.sqlite --val-split 5 --train-small-split 10 --seed 17` to add the splits table to the sqlite database. This will mark each image as belonging to either val or train, and then picks out 10% of the training images to use as an ablation study. This will run quickly on a login node.

> 4. `python scripts/evobio10m/make_metadata.py --db /fs/ess/PAS2136/open_clip/data/evobio10m-v3.3/mapping.sqlite` This will create all the metadata files that can be easily used by `make_wds.py`. It will also make a `predicted-catalog.csv` file that will closely mimic `catalog.csv`. `predicted-catalog.csv` will include rows for the rare species which are not included in `catalog.csv`, so it will have more rows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. `python scripts/evobio10m/make_metadata.py --db /fs/ess/PAS2136/open_clip/data/evobio10m-v3.3/mapping.sqlite` This will create all the metadata files that can be easily used by `make_wds.py`. It will also make a `predicted-catalog.csv` file that will closely mimic `catalog.csv`. `predicted-catalog.csv` likely includes rows for the rare species which are not included in `catalog.csv` (pending confirmation that this accounts for the 27K extra rows).
```

5. `python scripts/evobio10m/check_taxa.py /fs/ess/PAS2136/open_clip/data/evobio10m-v3.3/predicted-catalog.csv` This will check the predicted catalog file for any issues. If there are major issues, fix them first.
5. Run `sbatch slurm/make-dataset-wds.sh` on Pitzer. This runs the `scripts/evobio10m/make_wds.py` for each of the splits using 32 workers. This actually creates the webdataset files. It takes a long time (6 hours) and requires lots of memory.
6. Run `scripts/evobio10m/check_wds.py --shardlist SHARDS --workers 8 > logs/bad-shards.txt` which will write a list of bad shards to `logs/bad-shards.txt`.
7. Run `python scripts/evobio10m/make_catalog.py --dir /fs/ess/PAS2136/open_clip/data/evobio10m-v3.3/224x224/ --workers 8 --batch-size 256 --tag v3.3 --db /fs/ess/PAS2136/open_clip/data/evobio10m-v3.3/mapping.sqlite` which will create a file `catalog.csv` in `--dir` which is a list of all names in the webdataset.

> 8. Run `python scripts/evobio10m/check_taxa.py /fs/ess/PAS2136/open_clip/data/evobio10m-v3.3/catalog.csv` This will check the actual catalog file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Run `python scripts/evobio10m/check_taxa.py /fs/ess/PAS2136/open_clip/data/evobio10m-v3.3/catalog.csv` This will check the actual catalog file. More information on this file can be found [here](https://github.com/Imageomics/open_clip/tree/main/scripts#imageomics-specific-scripts).
```
